welcome back ladies and gentlemens
thanks as always for fitting me into
your podcast listening schedule
laszlo montgomery here the china history
podcast
one of the top china history related
podcasts out there i'll tell you that
let's finish off the other three eunuch
dictators of the ming dynasty and see
what outrageousness they did that caused
them to be considered so dreadful
the first of the four wong chun we
looked at him last episode he did some
damage that's for sure
not only led the chinese army to its
worst defeat in 5 000 years
his recklessness and failure to grasp
the urgency of the situation
allowed the oyrat mongols to capture the
emperor of china
i'd say that's pretty bad and for all
that
wang chun met a very fitting and bloody
ending
and i didn't mention last episode but
even after all the damage he did
well the jungtong emperor after he was
back on the throne
a second time continued to honor his
former grand eunuch posthumously
how's that for loyalty wanger
was the second of the four great eunuch
dictators of the ming
another wong but not the same wong as
wang jun
wangju was the first tone wang not
exactly the same as the most popular
surname in all of china
wong weighing in at more than 101
million people
first tone wong doesn't even make the
top 20.
remember i said last time when julian
jiang and his son
the yongla emperor when they were
putting out the last resistance to ming
domination
down in the southwest of china they
castrated a lot of these people
in yunnan and guayjo and guangxi
and wanger he was one of those guys
coming from the yao people of those
regions
his life was inexorably tied together
with one emperor
the changhua emperor aka emperor
shenzong
not to be confused with emperor xiansong
of tang or any other shenzongs out there
there were
a couple others he got to be emperor
by a simple twist of fate you remember
when the jungtong
emperor got captured at two move fort
well his empress
now the dowager empress she agreed
to put the captured emperor's brother
the thai emperor on the throne
instead of negotiating for her husband's
return
the the zhengtong emperor but in order
to agree to this
her gimme at the imperial court was that
her two-year-old son
jujen shun became crown prince and
ultimately the next emperor
and that is where juan chen are enters
our story
lady one or concert one she was 17 years
older than the two-year-old crown prince
and the dowager empress arranged for
lady juan
to serve as maid nurse mother
playmate and just about everything to
her son there was a short period when
the jing thai emperor reneged on his
agreement and imprisoned young
choo chianchon and for a while this
little boy
royal was sequestered away with only
lady one
and no one else to look after him but
when the jing thai emperor died in 1457
as we saw last time the jiangtong
emperor
seized back the throne as soon as he did
that little ten-year-old jujin shun
was restored as crown prince in age 17
he became emperor and he wasn't bad in
the beginning at least
the official ming history said this
changhua emperor was diligent in every
way and brought the dynasty back from
the brink due to
wang jun's colossally bad idea
and even though he had empresses and
consorts galore
the big scandalous thing about the
changhua emperor was that
well despite lady one being much older
than the changhua emperor
17 years as i just mentioned well she
became his favorite consort by a
landslide
and so everyone deferred to her as if
she was the empress and not
some hired help who just got lucky
and when the changhua emperor was 19 and
lady one
was 36 she gave birth to a son
and for 10 months she was walking on air
as mother to the new
crown prince but tragically the child
suddenly died and
there went all her hopes and dreams the
eunuch
wanger owed his rise
to lady juan because he worked for her
he was one of
her eunuchs and he rode up the palace
pecking order on her coattails
he stuck to her like glue and with no
small amount of help on her part
he made it all the way to grand eunuch
and by 1476
had become a trusted confidante to the
changhua emperor
and the changhua emperor after a
promising start
began to lose interest in the whole
emperor job
wanger saw an opening for himself he he
was the one who suggested to the emperor
to set up what became known as the
western depot
xichang remember last episode there was
the eastern depot
the tantan makuts of the forbidden city
but this new office the western depot
was even more powerful and had
complete dictatorial powers within the
bureaucracy so
now in 1477 you had the dreaded western
depot
and this ended up being the changhua
emperor's
primary tool of repression especially
during the second half of his reign
and wangjur was put in charge
and it was the abuse of this office that
gave wangju
the second spot behind wang jun as a
bonafide
eunuch dictator and through the
management of this western depot
office the authority wanger exercised
rivaled the emperor himself and during
the mid-1480s
wanger's misapplication of the powers of
the western depot
led to many lives that were ruined or
snuffed out because of his actions
well as much as the changhua emperor
wanted to bring the fortunes of the ming
dynasty back from the brink
he allowed events to overtake his good
intentions and even though the dynasty
still had a
a century and a half to go yet the
changhua emperor
or shenzhong if you want to go by his
temple name
he ended up making a nice royal
contribution to the dynasties decline
some of his most
trusted advisors risked their necks to
try and persuade the emperor to see the
evil being perpetrated by his eunuchs
especially wangju but it was all for
naught
changhua as with many an emperor before
and after him he stood by his most
trusted eunuch
and anyone who tried to have him whacked
got whacked themselves
chung hua and wang jer after those two
had burned through
what remained in the treasury in order
to raise money
well they got some inspiration from the
methods employed in rome
14 centuries before by good old lucius
cornelius sulla
who carried out mass prescriptions that
led to the confiscation of wealth
of political rivals and enemies wanger
and the eunuchs he ran
kept up another classic reign of terror
inside and outside the palace and it was
this horror show of prescriptions and
murder that he ran
and the innocent lives ruined that
earned him his place as the
second eunuch dictator the other reason
and this is why history holds lady juan
in
particularly high disesteem was due to
her conniving with wanger and other
eunuchs
to hold on to power within the palace
remember her son with the changhua
emperor tragically died
10 months only and lady won she was so
understandably distraught and
heartbroken
and was determined not to allow anyone
else to sire an ear
and wangjur and all the gong gongs who
worked for him a gong
was an archaic usage of a familial term
for court unix
well they knew everything that was going
on wang jir had turned
the western depot into an information
gathering and processing
center without security cameras and the
benefit of software that allowed you to
keep tabs on
every living soul with none of that
technology
they still had a lock on everything
going on in the capital
and beyond in any concubine who had a
role in the hay with the emperor and
became pregnant
well guess what the infant she gave
birth to either died
especially if it was a boy or the young
woman was forced to have an abortion or
given some
potion to induce a miscarriage so lady
juan
and her eunuch allies led by wangju
they had the changhua emperor scratching
his head after a while wondering
what the heck was going on for so many
years
a different concubine every night and
not one
single son well
there finally was one son and by the
time he was born in 1470
the secret was out and every concubine
knew if you wanted your child to survive
get him out of harm's way and as far
away from the palace as possible
and this one prince chuyochang
that's what they did with him he was
taken to a secure location and he indeed
got to survive infancy and childhood and
became the next emperor
hong chur and his temple name xiao zhong
as for wangjir after all the lives he
destroyed and all the horrors that came
out of the western depot
he managed to finally run afoul of the
changhua emperor and his life ended in
disgrace
after being demoted to becoming a common
eunuch
and with the demise of this second of
the four eunuch dictators
that also meant a temporary end to the
dreaded
western depot oh and as for lady juan
and the changhua emperor well first she
died in 1487
followed by the forlorn and lovesick
emperor who followed her three months
later
and the hong kong emperor after such a
traumatic childhood
became emperor and this new 17-year-old
monarch after
all the damage caused by wangjur
did what a few emperors did as soon as
they got comfortable on the throne
he cleaned house and eradicated the
worst
abuses committed by eunuchs and brought
the eunuch problem down to a
manageable boil history was rather kind
to the hong kong emperor
and his monogamy was made a big deal of
the only emperor
who eschewed the need for concubines and
consorts and remained
true to his one true love empress zhang
and history was not kind to her and the
list of her imperfections and
idiosyncrasies were as long as your arm
and she didn't have a happy ending in
her old age
but these two the hong cha emperor and
his empress
they sired one way stroll of a son
who rivaled caligula in his
outrageousness and cruelty
that's the post october 37 ce caligula
after his mysterious illness this
chinese caligula became the jangda
emperor whose temple name was
which leads us to the third eunuch
dictator leo jin
and wu zong he was leo jin's boy
every one of these eunuch dictators had
a particular
emperor who they hitched their wagon to
and lyochin
his fate was tied to this disgrace of an
emperor
i say this because the jung da emperor
as a young teen
raised by eunuchs by the time he became
emperor
well he was only interested in the perks
and wanted nothing of the work part
he had an intense dislike and distrust
of the officials and all their
confucian demands on his life and pretty
much throughout his lifetime
brief as it was he only wanted to have
fun
he lived for entertainment and having a
gay old time
carousing and partying that's all he did
he would even dress up incognito and go
out and mingle with the masses and more
vulgar aspects of chinese society in
beijing
and lyogene he got his start in the
palace as the eunuch in charge of music
and entertainment so he became very
important to the
emperor early on and with the emperor's
divine sponsorship
leotin rose up quickly to the head of
the
imperial household and he famously had
seven comrades who were part of his gang
and together
these ocho unicos were known as the
eight
tigers the baju and between 1506
and 1510 they just savaged the
government
brought yet another reign of terror on
the ruling class aristocrats
military men anyone who was unfortunate
enough to get selected by them
for a shakedown and the jung da emperor
he stood by them and gave them the okay
to go ahead and go after anyone they
wanted
he even allowed the eight tigers to
strut around the palace
wearing dragon robes gwen long powell
reserved only for the emperor
and with jangda or the way he
surrendered his authority to lyojin
and his fellow tigers they were able to
commit all their foul deeds with
impunity and the palace officials
they didn't take this lying down and
there was plenty of pushback
in may of 1510 a ming prince on hua
rose up in rebellion against the eunuchs
but in an age-old story you're probably
sick of hearing by now
leo jin's agents found out about what
they were up to
and this rebellion was put down almost
as fast as it started
and the ming royal who led the
conspiracy jujirfan the prince of anwar
he got captured and led back to beijing
to face his
grisly fate and the military officer who
led him back
yangi ching he had been on route to the
scene of the rebellion out in shanxi
and missed all the excitement but whilst
returning to beijing
yang yi ching with the prince of anhua
in handcuffs
well got to talking with one of the
eight tigers zhang yong
who had a few gripes with leo jin and he
agreed with young yi ching to go to the
emperor together
and petition for the execution of lyojin
those past attempts by the scholar
officials at bringing leo jean
down ended in failure and everyone who
lined up against leo jin ended up poorly
either banished all their wealth
confiscated
tortured or murdered it seemed this
capo dicapo of the eight tigers was
invincible
but now with one of his own conspiring
with his enemies
things were different this time though
the emperor wasn't sure he wanted to go
against the one guy who had always been
so nice and supportive of him
but in the end after enough pressure
from leo jin's enemies at court
finally the chungda emperor he signed
off on lyochian's death warrant and for
his crimes
well i hate to say it but he suffered a
pretty harsh and cruel fate
the death of a thousand cuts yeah the
lingua
penalty once again and that would only
took a few hundred or so cuts before
lyochine breathed his last
they kept cutting away at his carcass
and someone back then must have been
counting because
supposedly they sliced off 3 357
bits of his flesh the asian wall street
journal reported in 2001 that
by the time they cleaned out the last
kilo of gold and silver from his
residence
it added up to about 450
000 kilos of gold and nine million seven
hundred thousand kilos of silver
which at today's spot prices added up to
about
thirty three billion dollars which made
him about as rich as lake hashing
not bad and lyogene didn't even have a
real estate empire
after lyogene met his well-deserved end
the other seven tigers
kept on keeping on they still engaged in
mischief until the jungle emperor
finally met his well-deserved early exit
in 1521.
didn't even make it to 30. but wait
it gets worse next up was the most
villainous
and malevolent eunuch of them all or so
it's been said
in fact most sources i read
they call weijongxien the most atrocious
eunuch in all of chinese history which
by this time in the series really says
something
going back to jalgo in the third century
bce
there have been some pretty dreadful
ones so what was so bad about wei chong
shin
let's see if we can get through his
demolition of the ming dynasty before
the end of stoppage time
hui chong chen lived from 1568 to 1627.
he was born just after the ming dynasty
was rising up from the rubble left
behind by the
emperor's abysmal outing as ruler of
china
next up after him was the cha-ching
emperor another one who
wasn't into the job and refused to deal
with his ministers and officials
opting instead to let his eunuchs do his
talking
no tigers attendants or eunuch dictators
to speak of during the reign of chia
ching and his successors long ching and
wan lee
but nonetheless eunuchs were still
plentiful and often up to no good
and these three emperors though not as
bad as what transpired during the jungta
era as far as their
inattention to the job and dependence on
eunuchs went
nonetheless didn't do anything to halt
the rapid decline in the fortunes of the
house of jew
and their ming dynasty now if the
founding hongwoo
emperor could have only seen the sad
shape his dynasty was in
a century and a half after his passing
and his iron plaque that he left in a
conspicuous location of the palace
warning against empowering eunuchs that
had already been made a mockery of by
his son
the yongla emperor he wouldn't have been
happy
so weijong shen like all the greatest
heroes and worst scoundrels and
chinese history his life is all wrapped
up in legends
rumors and unsubstantiated stories
like this one it said in his youth he'd
love to have a good time
drinking gambling carousing and partying
and in his early 20s he had accumulated
enough
gambling debts whereby his only way out
was to either kill himself
or do something drastic to avoid the
debt collectors
so he had himself castrated and was able
to work his way into the royal palace
now a quick word here about the whole
matter of castration
way back in the day going back to the
han emperor wu
when captured soldiers and enemies were
turned into eunuchs
well if the emasculation procedure
didn't turn out so well and the guy died
not the end of the world but now all
these centuries later in the ming
dynasty
the eunuch profession was already quite
developed and the demand
was such that more attention was paid to
the surgical procedure and ensuring the
survival rate was as close to 100
as possible and these surgeons if you
will
they had to have a license and had
better be good at their job
and like it is with anything with
science and the medical profession
after so many centuries of trial and
error by the time of the ming
they pretty much got that survival rate
up to near perfect
which didn't guarantee won a cushy job
in the palace but
gave the prospective eunuch a shot
nonetheless
and we'll discuss these skilled
tradesmen who did the deed in the next
episode
they were called dalza jiangs
no easy path to riches and power for him
he had to work his way up the ladder
and in 1605 after more than two decades
punching a clock and serving as a
run-of-the-mill eunuch performing rather
menial duties he got his big shot
in that fateful year he was called on to
serve the grandson of the wan lee
emperor as his chef
and his grandson known by his era name
of tenshi
and the temple name of shidsong well he
was to wei chong xian
with all these other eunuchs we've
looked at were two previous emperors
zhao gao and qin arsher gaulisher and
lifu guo
with emperors shenzhong and suzong
and tong gwan and huizong wang jun and
wang zhi and the
ming shenda and zhangtong emperors
always in pairs a pliable emperor and a
scheming power hungry eunuch
like ice cream and pound cake a match
made in heaven
or hell and in the case of the late ming
dynasty eunuch weijong shen
it was this young tienshi emperor
their relationship started when this
future emperor was only the crown prince
juyou chow a young lad and this youngin
born in 1605 well his mother died in
1619 and with her gone
his wet nurse known as madame kuh
who had raised him since infancy like
what nurses are want to do
she became his substitute mother figure
and these two
were incredibly close and being the wet
nurse to someone as high up as the next
in line to the throne
came with no small amount of fringe
benefits and with his job serving as the
crown prince's master chef
weijong shen got to know madame kuh
quite well
and the two became very close indeed
in chinese there's a term dwecher
it referred to either two palace women
who live together in a kind of
relationship maybe or maybe not sexual
or in this case
with madame ku and weijong shin it
referred to
a palace woman and a eunuch who lived
together
as husband and wife these two were a
peer
and together they held the future tenchi
emperor in the palms of their hands
and aside from being young and easily
manipulated
the crown prince young juyo jiao well it
was written into the histories that
he was as ignorant and uneducated as one
could be
in his privileged position and perhaps
he may have even had mental disabilities
400 years ago who's to know for sure
but over the course of his childhood
madame ku
kusher and wei jong shin well they
manipulated him to the extent that when
he became the emperor in 1621
following the death of his father after
less than a month on the throne
gee wonder what happened he did what
many a previous emperor did
and left anything of importance to those
he was closest with
in this case his wet nurse and his
eunuch cook
how could anything go wrong and weijong
shan
having once been a bit of a party animal
and seeker of fun times in his
pre-castration days
well he was like a kindred spirit to
this young emperor who had no interest
in
anything except carpentry loafing and
seeking pleasures in all forms
and weijong shen took care of him in all
these respects
madame ka had helped in greasing the
wheels for weijong shen's rise to the
top
first she cleared the path for his
ascension to the
the directorate of ceremonial if you
recall from last episode this
office handled palace security the
eunuch school
the imperial libraries and works of art
the imperial tombs
and communication with the emperor and
punishing those who either broke the
laws or were in the crosshairs of
unicle retribution and weijongxian
got even with everyone he cobbled
together
a network of eunuchs throughout the
palace who were loyal
only to him and by now the supply of
eunuchs
far exceeded demand even with the
greatest
eunuch population in chinese history
some people were so
desperate for a chance they were slicing
off their private parts to get a shot at
life in the forbidden city
it said the eunuch population around
this time deep in the fourth quarter of
the ming dynasty
numbered around a hundred thousand once
he had full control of the directorate
of ceremonial
weijong chen had himself appointed head
of the dreaded eastern depot
and it didn't take long before he
controlled the big three offices
that struck fear in everyone's hearts
the directorate of ceremonial
eastern depot and the embroidered
uniformed guard
he truly was invincible
madame ka she too had her rivals and the
one person who she had a serious hatred
of
who out trumped her in the palace was
the tenshi
emperor's wife empress zhang and this
woman didn't take any
you-know-what from madame ka like road
runner and wiley coyote in the old
looney tunes cartoon
madame coo kept trying to bring this
empress down
but she failed time and again wei
zhongshan had his detractors of course
they all got murdered or worse his most
formidable foes were a group of
conservative confucian scholar officials
who comprised the so-called
dongling faction the dong lin dong
they had organized themselves during the
reign of the emperor juan li
they saw what was happening to the
dynasty and tried to implement reforms
that would
i don't know i guess you could say make
china great again
they tried a couple times in 1622 and
again
in 1624 the first time
hui chongshan fought back had the
donglian academy shuttered
and wiped out a number of the more
high-profile dongling members
then two years later having not learned
their lesson
several dongling faction leaders sent a
memorial to the emperor
enumerating 24 crimes that wei chong
shen had committed
you'd think they should have known that
this thick-witted emperor wasn't going
to side with them
but they went after weijong shin anyway
and what followed was a
two-year purge that saw all the leading
members of this faction
incarcerated tortured and executed in
what was surely a painful ending for all
who were on the receiving end of weijong
shin's wrath
it took until the next emperor's reign
before they could make a comeback
these years from 1625 to 1627
are said to have been at the palace
level that is
the most bloody and gruesome years in
chinese history
and that my good-looking listeners says
a lot
so with this last serious challenge to
his authority done away with
you'd think weijong shin could kick back
and relax well it wasn't meant to be
though
1627 the year of the fire rabbit
was fated to be a rough one for wei jong
shin when his meal ticket the tenshi
emperor aka zone when he was ill
and not looking like he was going to
make it to his 22nd birthday
weijong shin and madam ka came up with
that strategy to get one of hui chong
shin's kin
his nephew made the crown prince
all they needed was empress john's okay
and they could take care of the rest but
she had always been wary of these two
and
had even tried to convince her not to
terribly bright husband that this eunuch
who
he put so much trust and faith in was
nothing but a ming dynasty jiaoko
you see hui chongxian knew one thing was
for certain
if this emperor died he was essentially
screwed
so in trying to attempt this usurpation
of the throne
hui zhong shin was trying to avoid
having a run for cover if his young
foolhardy patron died suddenly but
that's what ended up happening
you know it said wei chong shin and
madam ku we're
doing the same thing lady juan had
attempted killing and incapacitating any
potential heirs to the throne
but as soon as shidzong this hapless
tenshi
emperor breathed his last the jig was up
for these two perhaps lovebirds and
partners in crime as soon as the new
emperor chongjong
was comfortable on his throne he ordered
the arrest of these two
their residence was raided and all
assets confiscated
and she got beaten to death in prison
and wei chong xian
well he didn't get off so easy without
his boy
the tianchi emperor to cover for him and
after all that he had done to so many
innocents he knew his
end wasn't going to be by lethal
injection so he went and hung himself
before he could meet the grisly and he
knew was coming
and after his burial the chongjong
emperor
gave the nod to dig up his corpse and
have it publicly dismembered
this last and final ming emperor
i'll give him an a for effort he tried
but
too much damage had already been done he
too ended up hanging himself when the
manchus from the north were
invading his capital and all was lost
the ming dynasty didn't fall solely
because of hui chongxien
but at a moment in history when a
comeback could have saved the day
and prevented the subjugation of china
by the manchester busy taking care of
himself
and having so many capable leaders and
administrators bumped off
and as soon as the 20th century arrived
on the scene in
movies and television became popular
you can bet hui zhongxian has been a
regular staple in many of these
ming dynasty era mini series and dramas
and one racy novel after another
followed in the wake of his death
lifting him up as a kind of
legend exaggerating his alleged sexual
prowess despite his shortcomings
in fact this is a whole other sub topic
to this general overview i've been
presenting these past four episodes the
whole
subculture of these pseudo marriages
between these emasculated eunuchs and
the palace women of all sorts
there was a whole world going on that
i'm not mentioning that we'll have to
wait till
some other time for now this is losla
montgomery of the china history podcast
signing off from los angeles california
springtime is coming already moved the
clocks forward last sunday
my favorite day of the year ching
dynasty next time
i wouldn't miss that one for the world
and one
last desperate plea to everyone out
there you can support me at patreon.com
slash china history podcast or show your
love and appreciation at paypal dot me
slash china history podcast
details at the website at tcup.media
take care everyone